[MUSIC]
>> Ben: Let's talk about tables.
So there's a bunch of people who've
been trying to solve this problem, and
there's probably half a dozen solutions
that I think are pretty valid.
But I think It's really
gonna be highly dependent on
the data that you're trying to represent,
okay.
Not every table solution is gonna work
because there's lots of different kinds
of tables.
So let's take a look at how some
of these guys are handling it.
So this is Zurb,
they've got a whole bunch of really
nice tools for doing this kind of work.
And you'll see what happens,
kind of a basic table, headers, and rows.
And at some point here what happens is,
they determine that for
their data that first column is critical,
and so
they give you the ability to kinda scroll
the remaining table underneath that, okay.
So if you're in a case where you need
to have access to that first one.
Maybe that's a a column of labels or
headers or something and
you wanna be able to kind just to slide
different columns over left and right and
compare, see the label with the data.
This would be a really good solution for
you.
Chris Coyier, out on his site
CSS-Tricks has this version.
He's actually doing this with just CSS.
[COUGH] It's kind of a cool technique.
What he's done is literally flipping
this table kind of on its side.
So watch what happens here
as I get to a certain point.
What you'll see now is that I have
the same content in this left column, so
the first name, last name, job title,
and then the data alongside it.
So he had to know quite a bit about
the structure of this table
to be able to do this in CSS.
He's using generated content and
CSS and all befores and afters and
all kinds of things like that.
But depending on your use case,
again, you might know that information and
it may be very static.
But if it's very dynamic, something like
this probably wouldn't work for you.
So you can kinda get a feel for
what he's doing, really cool.
I'm gonna walk us through
another example a little later.
This is a code pen that I built to kind of
demonstrate it but, I'll show you quickly
what I've done here, and then we'll
walk through the code to do this.
But this is the same kind of thing, but
I've opted to kind of create, again,
this is a very standard table structure,
I haven't touched the markup.
All I've done is a little bit of style,
display block on some table cells and
get them floated, set their widths.
And you can really build what
is actually fairly usable,
blocks of data with a label.
So we'll walk through that one
in much more detail after lunch.
So here's an example of one that I don't
think is necessarily a very good idea.
Well you'll see, what you'll see here
is they've made some decisions about
what you do and
do not need at small resolutions, okay.
So watch what happens as I
get a little bit smaller.
We don't need that column,
let's just hide it.
Didn't need those either, they're gone.
So this kind of is, this is a little bit
frustrating to me but I wanted to show you
this in comparison to another similar
solution that I think is much better.
This was put together by
the guys at Filament.
And check out what happens here.
So as I adjust my width,
again, we see some height,
all right, go way down and
we've hidden some, they also give me this.
I can choose which columns
I really want to see.
Really nice.
A little bit of JavaScript
is really all this takes and
you've got to have the right class
names and those sorts of things.
But, man, this could really be, I think
this has the most promise in my mind
to work with more table
structures than these others.
So again, it kind of depends
on the specific use case for
your data, but when you get into
building a site like this and
you've got all kinds of different
craziness going on in some table, you've
got to start to figure out, how do we
address these really wide tables of data?
So lots of good solutions
starting to emerge there.
Let's talk quickly about
images.
>> Ben: So
there's been a lot of conversation about
images,
>> Ben: [COUGH] Over the past few months,
in particular.
There's a working group that's been
established to try to figure out,
how do we provide images
in a responsible manner?
Somebody asked earlier about retina
images, and how do we serve those?
But really, if you think about,
it there's a couple different problems
that we need to solve with images.
Obviously, the size of the image is
something we need to think about.
If I'm, say I'm in a photo gallery and I'm
looking at this nice big beautiful image
that's 800 pixels wide,
if I open that same page up on my phone,
which is gonna report 300ish,
320, whatever.
I've got to be careful that I'm not
serving this massive image down the pipe,
to that small device, right.
It doesn't necessarily need that
much resolution in the image.
So there's been all kinds of attempts
to try and solve that problem.
So the sort of responsibleness of it but
there's another problem, too.
The example that I think I've
heard most frequently used is,
say you've got a photo of the president.
He's doing a speech,
maybe at an inauguration or something, and
he's got a nice wide shot.
You can see some of the crowd
in the foreground and
you can see the White House
in the background.
You're looking at this at
a thousand pixels wide.
It's great.
Soon as you take that 1,000 pixel wide
image down and make it 300 pixels,
that president that was pretty
small even at 1,000 pixels is
gonna turn into a toothpick, you're not
even able to tell what it is, right.
So this is more about the crop
of the actual image right,
I need a different image.
I don't need to just scale it down, or
serve a smaller version of the same thing.
So there's a couple different
problems at play here.
The current status of this is, I mean,
it's very much in flux, but people
are starting to kind of settle on this
idea of a new picture element in HTML.
And Scott Jael has written a really nice
polyfill for this, called Picturefill.
And you can take a quick look
here by looking at the sort of
the market pattern with divs,
kind of get a feel for what the intent is,
[COUGH] with the picture element itself.
It's kind of mimicked after video,
the video element,
where you can literally
specify multiple sources.
And the idea is that you can specify
some media queries on those sources.
So right inside the actual HTML,
you can start to imply which images
are appropriate for which viewport widths,
with the same kinds of syntax you used
to using in CSS media query syntax.
You'll notice that there is sort of
a default which is that small at the top,
and you'll also notice, in his case,
there's this fallback and no script.
Because this is gonna use
JavaScript to kind of come in and
replace all this stuff and
just put the right image in.
In the end you need to make sure that if
you don't have JavaScript you still serve
something.
So this is actually a very,
very valid solution,
you can use this today,
and it works very well.
So this could be something that
could work, I think, and in fact,
we were talking about implementing
this on our new site as we build it.
When we do so,
we'll probably want to be smart about it.
This right now,
it's gonna generate divs, but in
the future at some point, the idea would
be once the appropriate amount of browsers
are supporting this kind of thing.
We'd want to replace all those
divs that are maybe gonna
be generated by a content management
system with a picture element and
actually a picture element and
source elements inside.
So we would build a little flag or
a check box of some kind in the CMS
that would kind of switch between
generating divs versus generating
the actual picture syntax.
That way in the future,
you can kind of just turn one off, and
turn the other on, make sense?
Okay, so other solutions to this, okay?
Has this, this is kind of
an experimentation more than anything but
this is this idea of sort
of a proxy server, okay.
Where you might,
in a normal way, just specify your
syntax like that top image there.
Whatever your file is, your URL is.
They're suggesting maybe that you could
experiment with it by replacing that URL
actually just prepending that
URL with their domain name.
What's going to happen is the request
gets made on their server.
They parse out the image that you were
gonna request originally, pull it into
their server, do a little bit of user
agent detection, device classification,
make some adjustments to the size of
the image, and return it back to you.
So as I describe all of that,
you can imagine that the performance of
something like that is probably going to
be something you're not gonna
wanna put on a production site.
There are some other,
we've actually played with this and
it actually works pretty well.
I'm not one of the guys, the responsive
guys who is completely against
using some device classification or
device detection when it's appropriate.
We've been using those kinds of
techniques for a long time now and
there's a lot of really solid examples for
how to do it.
So I don't think that that's
something we should ignore.
ReSRC.it is something I came
across a month or two ago,
this is actually the same
exact kind of technique, but
this is a company that's trying to
kinda sell you a service to do that.
I'm not a huge fan of this,
with one exception.
I think that something like this could
really catch on because it's just so
easy to implement.
If you had a really solid
architecture behind this that
made sure there were no
performance concerns.
All I have to do is change the URL to my
image and everything just kind of works.
So for less technical people, something
like this might be a solution that
gets them a bit more responsively
serving those images.
Anybody played with either of those,
or, no?
They're worth a little
bit of experimentation.
And if you want the same kind of approach,
you could actually do the same kind
of thing on your own server, right.
I mean the detection stuff
isn't really that complicated.
This is a PHP based solution, but
I think it's been ported to
a couple other languages.
The idea here is you
modify your .htaccess, and
you redirect any requests for JPEGs or
PNGs, or any of those kinds of images
Through another file which does the exact
same thing that ReSRC.it and will do.
A little bit of user agent stu,ff figure
out what you should be serving, and
then return the appropriately
adjusted image.
So the nice thing about this is it happens
on your servers, you get to maintain it.
But you also have, you own it.
So if goes down and you're serving your
images through you're going to in trouble.
In this case, it's on your server, so
you're not necessarily dependent on
others.
>> Ben: And
then one last pattern I'd like us
to look at, are we okay on time?
Finish up here, okay.